# Dumb Fuzzer

## Purpose

This fuzzer uses random mutation with 13% chance of random
byte update per each character, and an additional 10 characters added every 500
iterations. It is meant to be used to test whether a program could handle single unpredictable inputs. A collection of test programs are included.

## How To Use

The fuzzer takes three arguments: the requisite two, and one more for 
convenience. The first two arguments are integers representing the PRNG seed 
and number of iterations. The last argument is the file name to the initial 
seed file, and is optional. If the initial seed file is not specified, then the
fuzzer will look for the file "seed" in its directory and use that as the 
initial seed if it exists. Usage is as follows:

    ./fuzzer prng_seed num_iterations [initial_seed] | ./prog_dir/prog_name

The fuzzer prints the resultant string to standard out, which could then be 
piped into the program to be tested.

## Input Generation Strategy

Input generation is as specified by the instructions, Randomness is generated by the `random()` function under the C 
standard library (`<stdlib.h>`) by comparing the result to 0.13. When initial
seed is not specified, the fuzzer performs modular division on the PRNG seed by
10 to determine start length. If `seed % 10 == 0`, then initial length is 1, 
and so forth.

The specific PRNG seed was not found to significantly affect the results, so 0 
is used for every test. The numbers of iterations were found by iterating to 
15,000 for each program using a Python runner. The runner uses `Popen` from the
`subprocess` module to execute shell commands in the format specified above. 
The results are saved and printed to standard out after all tests are 
completed.

## Dependencies

The fuzzer is written in C, with the following includes:

* stdio.h
* stdlib.h
* string.h
* stdint.h
* stdbool.h
* unistd.h

It is compiled with `gcc` in the local directory as such:

    gcc fuzzer.c -o fuzzer

The runner is written in Python 3.8.5, with the following imports:

* Popen, PIPE from subprocess

It can be run using:

    ./runner.py

## Solutions

The solutions for each program could be found under the "solutions" folder. The
three solutions under `./solutions` are the three that are required. The 
remaining solutions under `./solutions/test_suite` are for the set of 10 
programs. Each solution is in the format

    (prng_seed) (num_iterations)

## Run All Tests

    ./run_all_tests.py

This script (Python 3.8.5) repeats each solution for their corresponding 
program 100 times and prints the results, for convenience, so that you don't 
have to copy each seed into the current directory.